k0s docs update (#733)
k0sproject/k0s: docs/k0sctl-install.md

> ## Deploying a k0s cluster using k0sctl

Reviewer: Deployment chapter should explain the rough steps what k0sctl does in practice, like connect to the nodes using ssh, download k0s, install k0s as a service, connect nodes together securely.

k0sctl is a command-line tool for bootstrapping and the management of k0s clusters. Installation instructions can be found in the [k0sctl github repository](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0sctl#installation).

> First create k0sctl configuration file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First create a k0sctl configuration file:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> k0sctl will connect to provided host using ssh and gather information about the host. Based on the finding it will proceed to configure the host in question and install k0s binary.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
k0sctl will connect to hosts listed in a configuration file via ssh and gather information about them. Based on the findings it will then proceed to configure the hosts to create a k0s cluster.  
```

Reviewer 3: > Suggested change 

> k0sctl will connect to hosts listed in a configuration file via ssh and gather information about them. Based on the findings it will then proceed to configure the hosts to create a k0s cluster.

I like the phrasing suggested by @kke.

$ k0sctl init > k0sctl.yaml
```

A `k0sctl.yaml` file will be created in the current directory:

```yaml
apiVersion: k0sctl.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: k0s-cluster
spec:
  hosts:

>   - ssh:
>       address: 10.0.0.1 // replace with controller IP address
>       user: root
>       port: 22
>       keyPath: /root/.ssh/id_rsa
>     role: server
>   - ssh:
>       address: 10.0.0.2 // replace with worker IP address
>       user: root
>       port: 22
>       keyPath: /root/.ssh/id_rsa
>     role: worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - role: controller
    ssh:
      address: 10.0.0.1 # replace with the controller's IP address
      user: root
      keyPath: ~/.ssh/id_rsa
  - role: worker
    ssh:
      address: 10.0.0.2 # replace with the worker's IP address
      user: root
      keyPath: ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

  k0s:

>     version: 0.11.0-beta.2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    version: 0.11.0
```

```
k0sctl configuration specifications can be found in [k0sctl documentation](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0sctl#configuration-file-spec-fields)

Next step is to run `k0sctl apply` to perform the cluster deployment:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

⠀⣿⣿⡇⣠⣶⣿⡿⠋⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⣠⠀⠀⢀⣠⡆⢸⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣟⠋⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⢰⣾⣿⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⡏⠻⣿⣷⣤⡀⠀⠀⠀⠸⠛⠁⠀⠸⠋⠁⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠈⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⢹⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠙⢿⣿⣦⣀⠀⠀⠀⣠⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣿⣿⡇⢰⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣾⣿⣿⠀█████████    ███    ██████████

INFO k0sctl 0.0.0 Copyright 2021, Mirantis Inc.   
INFO Anonymized telemetry will be sent to Mirantis. 
INFO By continuing to use k0sctl you agree to these terms: 
INFO https://k0sproject.io/licenses/eula          
INFO ==> Running phase: Connect to hosts 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: connected              
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: connected              
INFO ==> Running phase: Detect host operating systems 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: is running Ubuntu 20.10 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: is running Ubuntu 20.10 
INFO ==> Running phase: Prepare hosts    
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: installing kubectl     
INFO ==> Running phase: Gather host facts 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: discovered bond0 as private interface 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: discovered 10.12.18.133 as private address 
INFO ==> Running phase: Validate hosts   
INFO ==> Running phase: Gather k0s facts 
INFO ==> Running phase: Download K0s on the hosts 

> INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: downloading k0s 0.10.0 
> INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: downloading k0s 0.10.0 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: downloading k0s 0.11.0 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: downloading k0s 0.11.0 
```

INFO ==> Running phase: Configure K0s    
WARN [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: generating default configuration 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: validating configuration 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: configuration was changed 
INFO ==> Running phase: Initialize K0s Cluster 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: installing k0s controller 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: waiting for the k0s service to start 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: waiting for kubernetes api to respond 
INFO ==> Running phase: Install workers  
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: generating token       
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: writing join token     
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: installing k0s worker  
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: starting service       
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: waiting for node to become ready 
INFO ==> Running phase: Disconnect from hosts 
INFO ==> Finished in 2m2s                

> INFO k0s cluster version 0.10.0 is now installed  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INFO k0s cluster version 0.11.0 is now installed  
```

INFO Tip: To access the cluster you can now fetch the admin kubeconfig using: 
INFO      k0sctl kubeconfig              
```

And, -- presto your k0s cluster is up and running

Get kubeconfig:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> $ k0sctl kubeconfig > kubeconfig
> $ KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig kubectl get pods -A

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ k0sctl kubeconfig > kubeconfig
$ kubectl get pods --kubeconfig kubeconfig -A
```

These `KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig` things don't work in fish.

NAMESPACE     NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system   calico-kube-controllers-5f6546844f-w8x27   1/1     Running   0          3m50s
kube-system   calico-node-vd7lx                          1/1     Running   0          3m44s
kube-system   coredns-5c98d7d4d8-tmrwv                   1/1     Running   0          4m10s
kube-system   konnectivity-agent-d9xv2                   1/1     Running   0          3m31s
kube-system   kube-proxy-xp9r9                           1/1     Running   0          4m4s
kube-system   metrics-server-6fbcd86f7b-5frtn            1/1     Running   0          3m51s
```

> ### Upgrade k0s version on your setup

Reviewer: Upgrade chapter could explain that upgrade is done using the same command as deployment. k0sctl automatically detects the existing k0s installation from the nodes and executes the upgrade (according to the new config).

Upgrade chapter should explain the upgrade process in high level (controllers are upgraded first one at a time, then worker nodes are upgraded in groups with drain…). Something should be said about the downtime. What are the requirements for not seeing any downtime.

Reviewer: @jasmingacic, the upgrade process description could be for example:

In a nutshell, the upgrade process is:
1. Upgrade each controller one-by-one; As long as there’s multiple controllers configured there’s no downtime
2. Upgrade workers in batches; 10% of the worker nodes are upgraded at a time

- Each worker is first drained allowing the workload to “move” to other nodes before the actual upgrade of the worker node components
- The process continues after we see the upgraded nodes back in “Ready” state
- Drain can be skipped with a `--no-drain` option

3. All done

Zero-downtime can be achieved when running the cluster in HA setup with multiple worker nodes.

> _NOTE: Upgrade will only work if you previously used k0sctl v0.4.0 and you are using v0.5.0_

Reviewer 2: It can also work if you installed k0s 0.10 manually. I think this note can be removed.

> The previous example installed k0s v0.10.0 on one controller and one worker.

Reviewer 2: Well it actually installed 0.11.0-beta.2 originally, I made suggestions to change it to `0.11.0`.

Author: I switched this from 0.10.0 to 0.11.0-beta.2 so we can upgrade to 0.11.0. We don't have any other way to demonstrate the upgrade

> The previous example installed k0s v0.11.0-beta.2 on one controller and one worker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous example installed k0s v0.11.0-beta.2 on one controller and one worker.
```

It installed 0.11.

> The previous example installed k0s v0.11.0-beta.2 on one controller and one worker.

Reviewer 2: It installed 0.11.0.

Let's upgrade the cluster to `v0.11.0-beta.2` 
Note: to get most recent version please visit release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).

In the k0sctl.yaml change this yaml tag:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> Note: to get most recent version please visit release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

You don't need to "get" anything but k0sctl?

  k0s:
    version: 0.11.0
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> $ k0sctl apply --config k0sctl.yaml 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ k0sctl apply
```

No need to pass the default config path.

> Based on the configuration `apply` command will detect running k0s version and reinstall `k0s` with newer version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `k0sctl apply` command will determine the running k0s version on each host and perform an upgrade to the target version defined in the configuration file.
```

> In the k0sctl.yaml change this yaml tag:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the k0sctl configuration, change the value of `spec.k0s.version`:
```

tags are something different in yaml. (`!!seq`, `!!str`, etc)

⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⢀⣴⣾⣿⠟⠁⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠛⠁⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀█████████ █████████ ███
⠀⣿⣿⡇⣠⣶⣿⡿⠋⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⣠⠀⠀⢀⣠⡆⢸⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣟⠋⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⢰⣾⣿⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⡏⠻⣿⣷⣤⡀⠀⠀⠀⠸⠛⠁⠀⠸⠋⠁⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠈⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⢹⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠙⢿⣿⣦⣀⠀⠀⠀⣠⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣿⣿⡇⢰⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣾⣿⣿⠀█████████    ███    ██████████

INFO[0000] k0sctl 0.5.0 Copyright 2021, Mirantis Inc.   
INFO[0000] Anonymized telemetry will be sent to Mirantis. 
INFO[0000] By continuing to use k0sctl you agree to these terms: 
INFO[0000] https://k0sproject.io/licenses/eula          
INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Connect to hosts                   
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: connected              
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: connected            
INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Detect host operating systems 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: is running CentOS Linux 7 (Core) 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: is running CentOS Linux 7 (Core) 
INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Prepare hosts   
INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Gather host facts 

> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: discovered bond0 as private interface      valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: discovered bond0 as private interface      valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever 
```

Hmm, I wonder what happened here 🤔

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by this? I grabbed the output as it is

Reviewer 2: Yes and it's alarming. It comes from:
```go
					log.Infof("%s: discovered %s as private interface", h, iface)
```

So where the heck did the `valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever` come from 🤔

Author: I will leave it as it is now. If you think it should be removed i will have it removed

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/224971/109623359-bdab1d80-7b45-11eb-9759-b2e936aed1c0.png)

It does not happen in the smoke tests.

INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Validate hosts   
INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Gather k0s facts 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: found existing configuration                 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: is running k0s controller version 0.10.0 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: need upgrade: true                     
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: is running k0s worker version 0.10.0 
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: need upgrade: true   
INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: checking if worker wrk has joined 
INFO[0001] ==> Running phase: Configure K0s    
INFO[0001] ==> Running phase: Upgrade controllers 
INFO[0001] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: starting upgrade
INFO[0001] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: Running with legacy service name, migrating... 
INFO[0011] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: waiting for the k0s service to start 
INFO[0016] ==> Running phase: Upgrade workers  
INFO[0016] Upgrading 1 workers in parallel              
INFO[0016] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: upgrade starting  
INFO[0027] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: waiting for node to become ready again 
INFO[0027] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: upgrade successful   
INFO[0027] ==> Running phase: Disconnect from hosts 
INFO[0027] ==> Finished in 27s                 

> INFO[0027] k0s cluster version 0.11.0-beta.2 is now installed 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INFO[0027] k0s cluster version 0.11.0 is now installed 
```

INFO[0027] Tip: To access the cluster you can now fetch the admin kubeconfig using: 
INFO[0027]      k0sctl kubeconfig 
```

> ### Gotchas

Reviewer: Gotchas->Known limitations (this is used elsewhere in docs)

> * upgrading k0s cluster with k0sctl is only possible if the cluster was already deployed using k0sctl

Reviewer 2: not true

Author: Should I remove it or i need to add something else?

Author: Maybe I should remove this sentence entirely?

> * k0sctl is not able to detect exiting setup e.g. number of cluster nodes and similar

Reviewer: exiting-> existing

> * k0sctl can only add more nodes to the cluster but cannot remove them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* k0sctl can currently only add more nodes to the cluster but cannot remove existing ones
```

With the drain/uncordon stuff implemented for upgrade this should be rather easy though.

> ## Deploying a k0s cluster using k0sctl

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Deploying a k0s cluster using k0sctl
```

> k0sctl is a command-line tool for bootstrapping and the management of k0s clusters. Installation instructions can be found in the [k0sctl github repository](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0sctl#installation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
k0sctl is a command-line tool for bootstrapping and management of k0s clusters. Installation instructions can be found in the [k0sctl github repository](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0sctl#installation).
```

k0sctl will connect to provided host using ssh and gather information about the host. Based on the finding it will proceed to configure the host in question and install k0s binary.  

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Using k0sctl
```

First create a k0sctl configuration file:
```sh
$ k0sctl init > k0sctl.yaml
```

A `k0sctl.yaml` file will be created in the current directory:

```yaml
apiVersion: k0sctl.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: k0s-cluster
spec:
  hosts:
  - role: controller
    ssh:
      address: 10.0.0.1 # replace with the controller's IP address
      user: root
      keyPath: ~/.ssh/id_rsa
  - role: worker
    ssh:
      address: 10.0.0.2 # replace with the worker's IP address
      user: root
      keyPath: ~/.ssh/id_rsa

>   k0s:
>     version: v0.11.0-beta.2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```suggestion
    version: v0.11.0
```

I don't think the installation example should install an old version.

If you remove the whole `spec.k0s.version`, it will discover the latest version, so, the example should install the latest, even if new versions are released, as long as the rest of the api is still compatible.

INFO ==> Running phase: Gather k0s facts 
INFO ==> Running phase: Download K0s on the hosts 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: downloading k0s 0.11.0 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: downloading k0s 0.11.0 
INFO ==> Running phase: Configure K0s    
WARN [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: generating default configuration 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: validating configuration 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: configuration was changed 
INFO ==> Running phase: Initialize K0s Cluster 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: installing k0s controller 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: waiting for the k0s service to start 
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: waiting for kubernetes api to respond 
INFO ==> Running phase: Install workers  
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.1:22: generating token       
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: writing join token     
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: installing k0s worker  
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: starting service       
INFO [ssh] 10.0.0.2:22: waiting for node to become ready 
INFO ==> Running phase: Disconnect from hosts 
INFO ==> Finished in 2m2s                
INFO k0s cluster version 0.11.0 is now installed  
INFO Tip: To access the cluster you can now fetch the admin kubeconfig using: 
INFO      k0sctl kubeconfig              
```

> And, -- presto your k0s cluster is up and running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And -- presto! Your k0s cluster is up and running.
```

Get kubeconfig:
```sh
$ k0sctl kubeconfig > kubeconfig
$ kubectl get pods --kubeconfig kubeconfig -A
NAMESPACE     NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system   calico-kube-controllers-5f6546844f-w8x27   1/1     Running   0          3m50s
kube-system   calico-node-vd7lx                          1/1     Running   0          3m44s
kube-system   coredns-5c98d7d4d8-tmrwv                   1/1     Running   0          4m10s
kube-system   konnectivity-agent-d9xv2                   1/1     Running   0          3m31s
kube-system   kube-proxy-xp9r9                           1/1     Running   0          4m4s
kube-system   metrics-server-6fbcd86f7b-5frtn            1/1     Running   0          3m51s
```

> ### Upgrade k0s version on your setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Upgrade a k0s cluster using k0sctl
```

The previous example installed k0s v0.11.0-beta.2 on one controller and one worker.
Let's upgrade the cluster to `v0.11.0` 

> Note: to get most recent version please visit release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**_NOTE:_**  To get the most recent version please visit the release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).
```

> **_NOTE:_**  To get the most recent version please visit the release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).

Reviewer 2: Third time commenting on this: k0sctl does all the k0s-getting, I don't understand this note.

> The previous example installed k0s v0.11.0-beta.2 on one controller and one worker.
> Let's upgrade the cluster to `v0.11.0` 
> **_NOTE:_**  To get the most recent version please visit the release [page](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/tags).
> 
> The `k0sctl apply` command will determine the running k0s version on each host and perform an upgrade to the target version defined in the configuration file. `k0sctl apply` will then execute the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's no dedicated upgrade sub-command in k0sctl, the configuration file describes the desired state of the cluster and when passed to `k0sctl apply`, it will perform a discovery of the current state and do what ever is needed to bring the cluster to the desired state, by for example performing an upgrade.

#### K0sctl cluster upgrade process

The following steps will be performed during a k0sctl cluster upgrade:
```

Maybe just drop the story-line of upgrading the cluster installed in the previous episode and treat this as an independent topic.

1. Upgrade each controller one-by-one; As long as there’s multiple controllers configured there’s no downtime
2. Upgrade workers in batches; 10% of the worker nodes are upgraded at a time
   * Each worker is first drained allowing the workload to “move” to other nodes before the actual upgrade of the worker node components
   * The process continues after we see the upgraded nodes back in “Ready” state
   * Drain can be skipped with a --no-drain option

> In the k0sctl configuration, change the value of `spec.k0s.version`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The desired cluster version can be configured In the k0sctl configuration by setting the value of `spec.k0s.version`:
```

```yaml

>   k0s:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
spec:
  k0s:
```

maybe add the spec here as it's hinted to above.

    version: 0.11.0
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

When a version has not been specified, k0sctl will check on-line for the latest version and default to using that.

```

Reviewer 3: > Suggested change 
> When a version has not been specified, k0sctl will check on-line for the latest version and default to using that.

small note:
on-line > online

Reviewer 2: Fixed. Looks like I'm still in the 90s :)

> Although a few stodgy editors and style guides still recommend the 1990s-style on-line (with a hyphen) for the computing-related adjective, the trajectory of the language favors online. The latter is now considered acceptable by most dictionaries and English usage guides, and most major publications have changed with the times. Perhaps more important, online is far more common in popular usage.

```sh
$ k0sctl apply

> 
> ⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⢀⣴⣾⣿⠟⠁⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠛⠁⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀█████████ █████████ ███
> ⠀⣿⣿⡇⣠⣶⣿⡿⠋⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⣠⠀⠀⢀⣠⡆⢸⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀███          ███    ███
> ⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣟⠋⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⢰⣾⣿⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
> ⠀⣿⣿⡏⠻⣿⣷⣤⡀⠀⠀⠀⠸⠛⠁⠀⠸⠋⠁⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠈⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⢹⣿⣿⠀███          ███    ███
> ⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠙⢿⣿⣦⣀⠀⠀⠀⣠⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣿⣿⡇⢰⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣾⣿⣿⠀█████████    ███    ██████████
> 
> INFO[0000] k0sctl 0.5.0 Copyright 2021, Mirantis Inc.   
> INFO[0000] Anonymized telemetry will be sent to Mirantis. 
> INFO[0000] By continuing to use k0sctl you agree to these terms: 
> INFO[0000] https://k0sproject.io/licenses/eula          
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Connect to hosts                   
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: connected              
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: connected            
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Detect host operating systems 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: is running CentOS Linux 7 (Core) 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: is running CentOS Linux 7 (Core) 
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Prepare hosts   
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Gather host facts 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: discovered bond0 as private interface      valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: discovered 10.12.18.133 as private address 
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Validate hosts   
> INFO[0000] ==> Running phase: Gather k0s facts 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: found existing configuration                 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: is running k0s controller version 0.10.0 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: need upgrade: true                     
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: is running k0s worker version 0.10.0 
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: need upgrade: true   
> INFO[0000] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: checking if worker wrk has joined 
> INFO[0001] ==> Running phase: Configure K0s    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
...
...
```

Maybe remove the repetition and go straight to the good part

INFO[0001] ==> Running phase: Upgrade controllers 
INFO[0001] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: starting upgrade
INFO[0001] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: Running with legacy service name, migrating... 
INFO[0011] [ssh] 10.0.0.23:22: waiting for the k0s service to start 
INFO[0016] ==> Running phase: Upgrade workers  
INFO[0016] Upgrading 1 workers in parallel              
INFO[0016] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: upgrade starting  
INFO[0027] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: waiting for node to become ready again 
INFO[0027] [ssh] 10.0.0.17:22: upgrade successful   
INFO[0027] ==> Running phase: Disconnect from hosts 
INFO[0027] ==> Finished in 27s                 
INFO[0027] k0s cluster version 0.11.0 is now installed 
INFO[0027] Tip: To access the cluster you can now fetch the admin kubeconfig using: 
INFO[0027]      k0sctl kubeconfig 
```

### Known limitations

> * k0sctl is not able to detect existing setup e.g. number of cluster nodes and similar

Reviewer 3: Not sure what this means - does this mean that k0sctl is only aware of nodes that it installed? 
Sorry, something about the phrasing isn't entirely clear to me.

Author: It is meant that something like terraform import isn't supported. Essentially if you already have a cluster setup k0sctl won't be able to detect and do any operations with it. It is more or less just a "disclamer".

Reviewer 3: Then I would phrase it as:

```
k0sctl is currently unable to manage existing resources, I.E, clusters installed manually, or with external tools. This means, k0sctl cannot:
 - detect the number of cluster nodes
 - manage upgrades(?)
 - < any other outcome that might happen >
 ```

Reviewer 2: > k0sctl is currently unable to manage existing resources

This is no entirely correct. It can manage them just fine as long as they mostly look like ones that k0sctl itself would have installed, meaning they were installed via `k0s install`.

Maybe something along the lines of:

```
k0sctl will not perform any discovery of hosts, it only operates on the hosts listed in the provided configuration
```
